
@deftypefn {Library Function} {char *} uninm_find_names_db (const char *@var{locale_base})

Get the path of the names database for the current locale. The
string should be freed by the caller. If @var{locale_base} is
non-@var{NULL}, then use it as the base directory for MO files;
otherwise use the compiled-in locale directory.

@end deftypefn


@deftypefn {Library Function} {char *} uninm_find_blocks_db (const char *@var{locale_base})

Get the path of the blocks database for the current locale.
The string should be freed by the caller.
If @var{locale_base} is non-@var{NULL}, then use it as
the base directory for MO files; otherwise use the
compiled-in locale directory.

@end deftypefn


@deftypefn {Library Function} uninm_names_db uninm_names_db_open (const char *@var{filename})

Open a names database.

@end deftypefn


@deftypefn {Library Function} uninm_blocks_db uninm_blocks_db_open (const char *@var{filename})

Open a blocks database.

@end deftypefn


@deftypefn {Library Function} void uninm_names_db_close (uninm_names_db @var{handle})

Close a names database.

@end deftypefn


@deftypefn {Library Function} void uninm_blocks_db_close (uninm_blocks_db @var{handle})

Close a blocks database.

@end deftypefn


@deftypefn {Library Function} {const char *} uninm_name (uninm_names_db @var{handle}, unsigned int @var{codepoint})

Retrieve the name of a Unicode codepoint.
The string must not be freed by the caller.

@end deftypefn


@deftypefn {Library Function} {const char *} uninm_annotation (uninm_names_db @var{handle}, unsigned int @var{codepoint})

Retrieve the annotation of a Unicode codepoint.
The string must not be freed by the caller.

@end deftypefn


@deftypefn {Library Function} size_t uninm_num_blocks (uninm_blocks_db @var{handle})


@end deftypefn


@deftypefn {Library Function} {unsigned int} uninm_block_start (uninm_blocks_db @var{handle}, int @var{i})


@end deftypefn


@deftypefn {Library Function} {unsigned int} uninm_block_end (uninm_blocks_db @var{handle}, int @var{i})


@end deftypefn


@deftypefn {Library Function} {unsigned int} uninm_block_name (uninm_blocks_db @var{handle}, int @var{i})


@end deftypefn

